>> Brian Holt: So for us, we're gonna
do something with componentDidMount,
except we're gonna do this,
>> Brian Holt: Not on Search,
so get rid of that.
We're gonna do it on Details.
>> Brian Holt: So the first thing
that we're gonna have to do here is,
unfortunately, this is
a function component, right?
That it's just a function
that returns markup.
We're gonna have to convert this to an ES6
class, which is something that you'll find
yourself kind of going back and
forth with sometimes.
But that's normal and healthy.
>> Brian Holt: So we're wanna say
class Details extends Component.
And bring in component up here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Then we're gonna turn
this into a render method right here.
>> Brian Holt: Then down here,
>> Brian Holt: And
then we need to turn to props up here.
In fact, let me just get rid of that and
say props.
Show is going to be a Show.
>> Brian Holt: And
everywhere that we say props.show,
which I think is just that one place,
right?
We're just gonna say this.props.show,
because now it's gonna be on the context
and not being passed in from the props.
>> Brian Holt: So you're gonna notice up
here that class is complaining is like
hey, this should be a stateless
functional component,
that's what the AirBnB config does for
you, but it's normal, okay?
>> Brian Holt: So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna have this kind of request,
something from our fake API.
This use to use the Open Movie Database
which unfortunately went closed,
so it's no longer so open.
[LAUGH] Understandably so, so
I mocked out a fake API for you.
So if you go over to your terminal
really quick, open a new window.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna go into
talks/fem/complete-intro-to-react/.
So I'm not gonna close my dev server,
I'm gonna leave that open.
But this one I'm gonna run yarn api,
which I already included for you.
And you're gonna get something that looks
like this, starting server on port 3000.
And what this is going to do is it's
going to make a fake API for you,
that's gonna give you back ratings for
your TV shows.
It's random, I did not rate these myself.
It's just randomly generated
every single time.
>> Brian Holt: Cool?
>> Brian Holt: So
now that this is an ES6 component,
let's go ahead and,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
start requesting data.
>> Brian Holt: So by virtue of the fact we
only make the API request after the item
has amounted to the DOM,
we have this interim state that
we're going to be loading, right?
Because it's going to load
the first time without that rating.
So that means that we need to
load with a loading state and
then eventually render something out.
That make sense, right?
This is good,
this is why you don't make API requests in
component will mount because
you don't wanna wait for
your API request to finish
before you render something.
You wanna render first and
then request something and
then render again once the data is back.
That's why you do all this
in component and mount.
So, let's create a new class and
the new page called spinner.ajax,
and this will be a reusable component
that we can use anytime we're loading.
So let's opt into flow,
we're going to import React from React,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're going to import styled, and
keyframes from styled components.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna show you
another fun capability with styled
components.
You can still do keyframe
animations with them.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
make a spin keyframe animation and
it's gonna be equal to keyframes,
which is another tagged template literal,
and we're gonna go from,
>> Brian Holt: Transform,
>> Brian Holt: Rotate,
>> Brian Holt: Zero degrees,
>> Brian Holt: to { transform:
rotate(360degrees).
Actually I'm pretty sure now
that I've written this out,
I'm pretty sure you just need to, right?
And then it infers the from.
Whatever the case, we're just gonna leave
it cuz that's what it is on my notes.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, then we're
gonna do const Image = styled.img.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna say animation,
>> Brian Holt: And then we'll gonna put
in spin 4s infinite linear,
and background-image;
url(/public/image/loading.png.
>> Brian Holt: And
then const spinner equals
an anonymous function that returns
image sort,
>> Brian Holt: I
guess you don't need that styled,
you don't need that background image.
Okay, get rid of that.
>> Brian Holt: /public/image/loading.png.
And alt = "loading indicator",
and then export default Spinner;.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
we created a new keyframe up here.
And what's going to be starred in
this keyframe is actually going to be
the generated name of that keyframe.
And then we're going to be outputting
that here in the animation in the CSS for
this image tag, right?
>> Brian Holt: So now we have this dumb
component, this presentational component
that we can just render anywhere, that we
want a nice little spinning pin wheel.
Really nice for loading.
Now, we have the spinner component that
we can use anywhere that we're loading
anything, so I actually end up
using in a couple of places,
hence why we made its own component.
But this is kinda the gist of how you
do keyframe animations with styles
components, which is I think
pretty sleek in my opinion, okay?
So now we're going to use
this inside of Details.
So we're going to import
Spinner from './spinner'.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: And the other thing we're
gonna import up there at the top is
the library called axios,
import axios from 'axios'.
This is just an Ajax client, it doesn't
bother me if you don't like this one or
wanna use a different sort of Ajax client,
or
if you just wanna write using
the fetch API, that all works for me.
I'm just gonna use Axios
because it's really easy and
it's one that I've used for
a long time, it's super reliable.
It's also very easy to test with,
which I will show you later how
to test these Ajax requests.
So, suffice to say,
that where we gonna use Axios for now.
Okay, down here in Details,
>> Brian Holt: Add
a prop type inside a shell.
Yeah, okay so
go back to your types.js real quick.
And I already have it so
you don't need to do that.
No problem, we're gonna go to details.
Cool.
And then we're gonna have some
state up here at the top,
so state = apidata,
is that what I stored in?
Yep, apidata.
>> Brian Holt: And its initial
state is going to be an imdbRating.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: So we're gonna request
all this information back from the API.
And one of the requests, or one of the
answers that it's going to give back to us
is this rating that
we're going to display.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we're
going to make a componentDidMount.
I think it goes between these two,
componentDidMount.
And what we're gonna do is
we're gonna do axios.get
>> Brian Holt: 'http://localhost:3000/$
',
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
This is gonna get us
the data from the API.
It's gonna give us back a promise so
we gonna say .then,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're going to a response back from
the API, so the response is going to look
like,
>> Brian Holt: data,
>> Brian Holt: rating,
>> Brian Holt: string,
>> Brian Holt: So this is just typing for
the data we know we're gonna
get back from the API.
>> Brian Holt: And coming here then
we're gonna say this.setState(),
and that's gonna be
APIData: Response.data.
>> Brian Holt: And I called this IMDB,
so let's just call this rating up here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so just to recap here,
>> Brian Holt: So the first thing let's do
is we'll do a .get at local host 3000,
providing your API server is running,
so make sure your API server is running.
And it's going to go out and
get from the imdbID, based on the imdbID,
then it's going to give you
back this response object,
which is gonna give you back data,
which is something that axios does.
Then it's gonna do rating, and
that's gonna be a string and
we're gonna use that to setState so
that apiData is gonna be replaced by
whatever comes back from the API.
>> Speaker 2: There's just
a comment in chat about,
why would you use Axios versus Fetch?
The fact is that you don't
have to call .json and
all that stuff, it just sends
the data as you would expect.
And then also error handling, you don't
have to check if its response code is 200.
You can just do a .catch and
grab any errors.
>> Brian Holt: It's a little bit more
baked than, it does a lot more for
you than fetch does.
In particular, for
this workshop, the reason why I chose
is that Axios is very easy to test.
And so we're gonna be using
that capability later.
Whereas with fetch you need to do
a little bit mocking on your part.
So that's why I chose Axios.
And again, I've been using Axios for
years at this point.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So
now we have that coming back from the API.
what I'm gonna do here is,
underneath here we're gonna say,
let ratingComponent, and
then we're gonna say,
if this.state.apiData.rating.
So if we have gotten
this back from the API,
then ratingComponent is going to be
equal to an h3 with that rating,
so it's gonna be
this.state.apiData.rating.
Else,
>> Brian Holt: Rating
component is going to be
equal to our Spinner.
>> Brian Holt: So again coming back,
you wanna think about your
components in snapshots.
So given the snapshot that
the API data has come back,
it's gonna be equal to this h3 right here.
Given the snapshot that it has
not come back from the API,
it's gonna be this loading state, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then what we're gonna do is we're going
to put that between year and poster.
So right here, and
we're gonna say ratingComponent.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Brian Holt: So if we come back here,
>> Brian Holt: And
we go to one of our Details page.
Notice we get this nice little
Spinner right there, and
then eventually resolves and
gives us back a rating.
>> Brian Holt: So again, what that looks
like,
>> Brian Holt: I
haven’t introduced an artificial delay
cuz it was coming back too fast,
so it's gonna come back between
like zero and five seconds.
So that’s why it seems slow.
>> Brian Holt: In fact,
if you look at that code ratings API,
>> Brian Holt: You
see it's just generating a random
timeout right there for five seconds.
So that's why it seems slow,
it's because it's intentionally slow.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
just a general question about components.
So, in that it fells,
I just wanna make sure I understand.
So, we could capitalize
the rating component and
then call it as a,
like in the [INAUDIBLE].
>> Brian Holt: So, if you wanted to
do that what you'll have to do is
ratingComponent like this right,
then you would have to make it a function.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: And then here you would
say rating component like that right?
The same thing for the one up there,
that's a bad idea, don't do that.
The reason why is you'd
be creating components,
you'll be creating functions rather
on every render which is slow, right?
That's why we didn't do dot buying,
too before inside of the render body.
You don't want me generating and
destroying things on every render cuz
that's a lot of garbage clash
that you don't wanna go through.
Does that make sense?
Cool.
It's a good question.
So I don't know.
I think this is pretty amazing.
It just makes doing things like,
>> Brian Holt: Requesting stuff
from APIs and asynchronous data.
Like thinking about things in terms of
snapshots it just really makes sense for
me, right?
Given this data it looks like this, right?
Before it gets stuff from
the API it looks like this.
After it gets stuff from
There's no imperative like grab this
thing and change its inner HTML and
then make sure later that it has changed.
I don't know, it's crazy,like having the
components just keep track of their state
and then just referencing the state
makes a lot of sense to me personally.